Introduce QueryAPI Docs (#1395)
near/docs: docs/bos/community/indexers.md

### Performing Queries on the Public GraphQL API

Once you have created your indexer, you can perform queries on the public GraphQL API. You can find the endpoint for your indexer by clicking on the "GraphQL Playground" button on "View Status" page of the indexer. **Note: Make sure you specify the `x-hasura-role` header as `<your_account_name>_near` using `_` instead of `.` in your account name.**

This will display all your account's created tables on the GraphQL Database on the left-hand viewer. You can then perform queries on the right-hand viewer. For example, if you have created a table called `transactions` with columns `id`, `sender`, `receiver`, `amount`, `block_height`, you can perform a query like this:

```graphql
query MyQuery {
  <your_account_name>_near_transactions {
    id
    sender
    receiver
    amount
    block_height
  }
}
```

You can fetch this data from your component in BOS by using the `fetch` function. To the URL shown in the GraphQL Playground interface with the headers displayed there, and the your query as above for the body. For example:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, we will provide a brief overview of how to query from a component in BOS.

It is helpful to create a helper method which will allow us to fetch from our GraphQL API. Let's call it`fetchGraphQL`. It takes three parameters:

1. `queriesDoc`: A string containing the queries you would like to execute.
2. `queryName`: The specific query you want to run.
3. `variables`: Any variables to pass in that your query supports, such as `offset` and `limit` for pagination.

```javascript
function fetchGraphQL(queriesDoc, queryName, variables) {
  return asyncFetch(
    QUERY_API_ENDPOINT,
    {
      method: "POST",
      headers: { "x-hasura-role": `<your_account_name>_near` },
      body: JSON.stringify({
        queries: queriesDoc,
        variables: variables,
        operationName: queryName,
      }),
    }
  );
}
```

To use the `fetchGraphQL` function, first define a string of queries, e.g `transactionQueriesDoc` containing your desired queries:

```javascript
const transactionQueriesDoc = `query TransactionsQuery {
  root_near_transactions {
    id
    sender
    receiver
    amount
    block_height
  }
}
...
query AnotherQuery {
  root_near_accounts {
    id
  }
}`;
```

Next, call the `fetchGraphQL` function with the appropriate parameters and process the results. In this example, we fetch transaction data and update the application state:

```javascript
fetchGraphQL(transactionQueriesDoc, "TransactionsQuery", {})
  .then((result) => {
    if (result.status === 200) {
      let data = result.body.data;
      if (data) {
        const transactions = data.root_near_transactions;
        // Perform any necessary operations on the fetched data
        ...
        // Update state with the new transactions data
        State.update({
          transactions: transactions,
        });
      }
    }
  });
```
We have just shown how to fetch data from the indexers that we have created from within the BOS. To view a more complex example, see this widget which fetches posts with proper pagination: [Posts Widget powered By QueryAPI](https://near.org/edit/roshaan.near/widget/query-api-feed-infinite)

---
id: indexers
title: Indexers
sidebar_label: Indexers
---

> 

Reviewer 2: Let's start with What/Why. Maybe this text from the code readme?
```suggestion
With QueryApi you can
* Write your own custom indexer function;
* Specify the schema for your own custom hosted database and write to it with your indexer function;
* Retrieve that data through a GraphQL API.
```

> You can access the [NEAR QueryAPI by following this link](https://alpha.near.org/#/roshaan.near/widget/queryapi__QueryApiDashboard).

Reviewer 2: needs prod link, https://near.org/dataplatform.near/widget/QueryApi.Dashboard

This should take you to a dashboard that looks like this:

![QueryAPI Dashboard](./assets/QAPIScreen.png)

## Creating an Indexer

Clicking on "Create New Indexer" will redirect you in-browser to a Component code editor that looks like this:

![QueryAPI Indexer Dashboard](./assets/QAPIScreen2.png)

This is the interface through which you can create a new Indexer. On here you can specify:

- the filtering, transforming logic on `indexingLogic.js`
- the database schema on `schema.sql`

> - the GraphQL queries on `queries.graphql`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- the GraphQL queries on `GraphiQL`
```

> - the filtering, transforming logic on `indexingLogic.js`
> - the database schema on `schema.sql`
> - the GraphQL queries on `queries.graphql`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- the filtering, transforming logic in `indexingLogic.js`
- the database schema in `schema.sql`
- the GraphQL queries in `queries.graphql`
```
?

- the indexer name on Indexer Name
- from which block to start indexing on Specific Block Height or From Latest Block Height (selected by default)

### `IndexingLogic.js`

The indexer code editor is pre-populated with a template that looks like this:

```js
import { Block } from "@near-lake/primitives";
/**
 * Note: We only support javascript at the moment. We will support Rust, Typescript in a further release.
 */

/**
 * getBlock(block, context) applies your custom logic to a Block on Near and commits the data to a database.
 *
 * Learn more about indexers here:  https://docs.near.org/concepts/advanced/indexers
 *
 * @param {block} Block - A Near Protocol Block
 * @param {context} - A set of helper methods to retrieve and commit state
 */
async function getBlock(block: Block, context) {
  // Add your code here
  const h = block.header().height;
  await context.set("height", h);
}
```

> This editor with this code is part of the `indexingLogic.js` file that is selected. This logic in partiuclar will perform the filtering of blockchain transactions, tranforming and saving the data you specify to a GraphQL database you define in `schema.sql`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This editor with this code is part of the `indexingLogic.js` file that is selected. This logic in particular will perform the filtering of blockchain transactions, transforming and saving the data you specify to a GraphQL database you define in `schema.sql`.
```

### `schema.sql`

This tab in the editor will be pre-populated with a template that looks like this:

```sql
CREATE TABLE "indexer_storage" ("function_name" TEXT NOT NULL, "key_name" TEXT NOT NULL, "value" TEXT NOT NULL, PRIMARY KEY ("function_name", "key_name"))
```

This is the database schema that will be used to store the data you specify in `indexingLogic.js`. You can add more tables and columns to this schema as you see fit. They will be created as soon as you create the indexer.

> 

Reviewer 2: Creating this default table will allow you to use the `context.set` helper method to write data. It takes two arguments: a key argument and a value argument,  which will be written to the `key_name` and `value` columns respectively.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Creating this default table will allow you to use the `context.set` helper method to write data. It takes two arguments: a key argument and a value argument,  which will be written to the `key_name` and `value` columns 
```

> ### `GraphQL`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### `GraphiQL`
```

> The graphQL tab in the editor will allow you to view the returned data from the GraphQL database. This is best verified after you have created the indexer. You can also access a GraphQL Playground by visitng the "GraphQL Playground" link from the "View Status" page of the created indexer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The GraphiQL tab in the editor will allow you to view the returned data from your GraphQL endpoint. This is best verified after you have created the indexer.
```
The GraphQL playground button has been removed
